---
title: 'Elevator Pitch/Project Proposal'
date: 2024-02-06
permalink: /posts/2024/02/blog-post-1/
excerpt: 'Illicit financial flows (IFFs) threaten correspondent banking relationships (CBRs) that provide developing nations access to the global financial system.'
---

Illicit financial flows (IFFs) threaten correspondent banking relationships (CBRs) that provide developing nations access to the global financial system. Especially in the Caribbean region, where CBRs are vital conduits to crucial income sources, efforts to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism leave ordinary people as collateral damage. 
CBRs are financial connections between a large international bank, the correspondent, and smaller national banks, called respondents, that want access to the global financial system. Depositors at the respondent bank can utilize services such as wire transfers and foreign exchange settlements, critical for allowing important sources of foreign income to flow into developing countries such as remittances from relatives living abroad. However, the systemic risk of money laundering and illicit financial flows will sometimes lead correspondent banks to sever financial ties with the respondent bank, called de-risking, cutting off the developing nation from the global financial system. 
This project seeks to generate a robust model to proactively identify which countries are vulnerable to de-risking. By identifying indicator variables, this type of model could give nations time to take preventative steps before correspondent banks sever their relationships with the respondent countries. Potential warning signs that banks may be using to evaluate a country’s risk profile are both quantitative and qualitative, including macroeconomic trends or government stability. Given the challenges of sparse data in this domain, the project’s primary mission is to generate a framework for data collection and analysis that other institutional stakeholders can use to take steps toward understanding country-level systematic risk. 

